The ups and downs of life where you find life going on, above that bottom line of yours… go on regardless of whether they are resented, or just tolerated, or in the end (whether by God’s good grace, or simple looking-to-see, or both) welcomed with open arms. The art of handling these inexorable goings-on is the art of resting on what underlies them, the art and science of consciously being the ground which supports all that commotion without itself becoming disturbed in the slightest. Here, you are the bedrock of the world, where it all begins and where it all ends. Eternally one and the same, you are the Unmoved Mover. Douglas Harding, Head Off Stress.

Are we face-to-face, in symmetrical relationship, object confronting object, each shutting out the other? Quite the contrary. Here where I am is no face, no speck of anything to ward you off with, to resist your invasion. Whether I like it or not, I’m so wide open to you that your face is mine and I have no other. Douglas Harding, Look For Yourself.

If we really look at what it’s like where we are, surely we can see we are built for loving, we are built open, we are built as capacity for the other one, the loved one - or the one who is perhaps not consciously loved so much. We disappear in his or her favour, not because we are very nice or very loving people really but because that is the way we are, to vanish in favour of that one there. Douglas Harding. DVD: On Having No Head.

I find in me two wills, one that belongs to the pre-mortem life of the one in my mirror, and the other which belongs to the post-mortem life of the one this side of my mirror. The former is quick to say NO! to a good half of what happens to me, while the latter eventually says YES! – SO BE IT! – to it all. And does so with good reason: I see that right here all my resistance is dissolved and I’m burst wide open to receive whatever’s in store for me. Saying Yes! to it is often excruciatingly difficult, of course, but it turns out to be the recipe for the only peace worth having. And so at last the paradox holds: it’s because I have no will that my will is done. Right here, total impotence and total omnipotence come to the same thing. Douglas Harding, To Be And Not To Be.

Absence is for acceptance as absence, not as the presence of a well- concealed gold-mine. The gold comes out all right, but unsought, in its own good time and unpredictable shape. Douglas Harding, The Science of the 1st Person.

When you start living the heroic life – that is, living from your true Nature – your peripheral and human nature is bound to benefit. You cannot know in advance how or when, but you can count on Yourself the superhuman hero giving yourself the human non-hero a helping hand and a leg up where necessary. Douglas Harding, Head Off Stress.

It would be difficult to overstate the practical importance of this discovery, its consequences for everyday living. All alienation, all separation, the many-sided threat of hostile things and persons and situations – these are no more than bad dreams. All is You. How could you fear Yourself? How could you despise, resent, be bored by Yourself? How could you not love Yourself? Douglas Harding, Look For Yourself.

Again we come to the great question, Who or What am I in my own experience? Am I a thing consumed with fear and anxiety and soon to perish and be forgotten, or am I the No-thing which includes things of different life-spans, from galaxies to particles and people? Things come and go within my Space, which is not the kind of thing that comes and goes. And therefore I am not frightened, I am not scared out of my wits, if I really live from Who I am and What I am which is my No-thingness, which is absolutely safe. Incomparable Safety is at your Centre, I suggest, Incomparable Safety. Because No-thing is absolutely safe. The aware No-thing where you are is not the kind of thing that can be destroyed. Douglas Harding. DVD: On Having No Head.

Yet it’s no bad thing to be fearful, provided we’re driven to the one refuge from all danger and stress and fear – to this incomparable Safety, to the Place or No-place we have all along been at. By pointing a finger – or simply looking at What we’re looking out of at this moment, or by any other means that works for us – let’s get Home to What we are. Let’s stay with and live from this absolutely safe Reality instead of that accident-prone appearance in our mirror, and see what comes of it, what happens to our stress. Douglas Harding, Head Off Stress.

So it all comes back to the crucial question of my true Identity. If I insist on making an object and a thing and a 3rd person of myself here, I am consumed with a thousand fears and better off dead. But if I give up this unrealistic and unrewarding habit and come to Myself, I see that I have never emerged from that marvellous Abyss, that before Abraham was I am, before the first galaxy and the first atom, before time itself. Right here and now, in the very place all this stormy weather of time and change come from, I am Home and dry. Where can I go from this Safe Haven? Douglas Harding, The Science of the 1st Person.

What a relief to be backed by the One whose name is I AM, the name that precedes and introduces every other name. What a relief to merge into and be upheld by the Unlimited. Douglas Harding, The Trial of the Man who said he was God.

This meditation is safe, not only because it can’t be bungled, not only because it avoids dependence upon others on the one hand and self-pride on the other, but also because it is uncontrived. There’s nothing arbitrary or fanciful about it, nothing to strain your credulity, nothing to go wrong, nothing to set you apart from ordinary people, nothing special. It is safe because it is finding out how matters stand, not trying to manipulate them. What could be less dangerous than ceasing to deceive yourself about your Self, or more dangerous than not doing so? Douglas Harding, quoted in Seeing Who You Really Are by Richard Lang.

The spirituality that denies the universally accepted findings of modern science at all levels, or refuses to face up to them and cheerfully take them on board, is a pathetic and moribund travesty of spirituality. And conversely, the spirituality that perceives in these findings a rich and precious and indeed divine revelation of our time and for our time and just what's needed to treat our sorry condition, is alive and kicking. Douglas Harding.

For thousands of years the wise have been siding with God and taking this way Home; and recommending, with all the eloquence at their command, this royal road from human bondage back to divine freedom. Now, at last, instead of being told about it by experts, we are being shown it. We are invited to see our own way through to God's own country. The Clear Country we're coming from and returning to. Douglas Harding, The Trial of the Man who said he was God.

What I find difficult and unacceptable really, is the wishy-washy reliance on words, on concepts, of so much alleged spirituality. True spirituality is real, down to earth, concrete - it’s coming home from your appearance to your reality. As the Buddha said, you won’t by going reach that place where there is the end of suffering. You’ll get it by coming. We are so good at looking that way, and lousy at looking this way. DVD: Interview with Douglas Harding.

Oddly enough, it’s the man who attends only to the outer scene, ignoring what lies at its Centre, who is more or less blind to that scene. For the world is a curious phenomenon that, like a faint star, can be clearly observed only when it isn’t directly looked at. The world will hide its true face from us until we look in the opposite direction, catching sight of it in the mirror of the Self. Douglas Harding, Look For Yourself.

When two-way looking is persisted in, the external world is much more truly and vividly seen than when it is viewed by itself and as if it were the whole story, as if it were unobserved. It must be added, nevertheless, that even this enlightened way of looking at the world doesn’t begin to perfect one’s knowledge of the world, whose very nature is that it can only be inspected piecemeal and never comprehensively. Only its Source is given all-at-once and can be viewed unselectively, with complete objectivity. Douglas Harding, The Science of the 1st Person.

The ‘as is’ world, the world as given before I start mucking about with it, for the purpose of controlling it, for the purpose of getting power over others, and so forth, the world as given to me when I am simple enough to dare to look at what is presented, I say, in my experience, that world is woven of blessings. It is a world full of blessing. It is a world built to a fabulously beautiful design. Douglas Harding. DVD: Melbourne Lecture.

Besides the countless particular miracles that we comprise, there is that supreme irregularity – the fact that anything exists at all. Most unnaturally, there is not just Nothing. How adroit of It to happen! How deserving of our congratulations It is, for having arranged its quite impossible existence! After that, what are a few billion universes more or less? What impossibilities may not It or He have up His sleeve? And what may I not be in Him? Douglas Harding, The Hierarchy of Heaven and Earth.

Ultimately sex doesn't come into its own till it is revealed as an aspect of the One's own joy in discovering and reuniting with Itself, disguised as the not-self or other - as one very special other. Douglas Harding, quoted in Seeing Who You Really Are by Richard Lang.

I’m not saying, mind you, that a life consciously lived from its true Centre will be safe or painless, easy or consistently joyful. Real adventure is made of sterner stuff. Those great arms embrace the suffering of the world no less than its splendour and its thrill. Those hands know the torment of crucifixion. Only so can the terrible pain of the world be overcome. The real joy, the joy that casts no shadow and knows no variation, has come through the fire. Douglas Harding, To Be And Not To Be.

In truth, only Nothing has room for Everything. Only a Nothing that’s awake to its nothingness is awake to its Allness. So long as any part of me remains unsurrendered I shall never be Myself. Douglas Harding, Look For Yourself.

You see Who you are and you see that there is no place left for the mind to store things, no hooks for grappling thoughts and feelings to the Centre. They are centrifugal, they belong to the world. Your world becomes a living world again, it comes to life. Douglas Harding. Interviewed by Richard Lang.

My mirror confirms this wide-openness right here where I am. The very thing which long ago put a face on me now relieves me of it. Now I look in the glass to see what I’m not like! Douglas Harding, quoted in Seeing Who You Really Are by Richard Lang.

The more steadily I gaze at the One that’s nearest and clearest, the more it turns out to be the dearest, more me than myself, the Resource that never really lets me down. The Wide Awake One that – though homely and obvious and transparent through and through – fills me with worship and wonder at the mystery of its self-origination. Who shall set limits to the bright blessings that can arise from our growing willingness to trust what we see, instead of what we’re told to see? Douglas Harding, Look For Yourself.

Truly I forget in what my wealth and true grandeur lie, and how inexhaustible they are, and how my title to them is my absolute poverty. Plunging head-first into the sea of nothingness, I find there untold treasure. Douglas Harding, The Hierarchy of Heaven and Earth.

I find that it is when my attention is centred primarily upon the One who is attending here, and only incidentally upon the world that confronts me, that the world is made marvellous in me. Then the great surprise, the most astounding fact of all, isn't what the Cosmos is but that it is; not the infinitely varied products there but their simple Origin here. Nevertheless when they are seen as proceeding from This they take on its wonder, and nothing is ordinary any more. Douglas Harding, The Science of the 1st Person.

As long as I am this or that, I am not all things. Meister Eckhart.

Do not your inclinations tell you that the world is yours? Thomas Traherne.

Zen masters are totally identified with Nature. D.T. Suzuki.

The truth shall make you free. Jesus.

True wisdom is learning to wish that each thing should come to pass as it does. Epictetus.

Those who know Him most perfectly perceive most clearly that He is perfectly incomprehensible. St. John of the Cross.

The outward man is the swinging door; the inner man is the still hinge. Meister Eckhart.

The world was more in me than I in it. Thomas Traherne.

You do not live in the body. It is a great deception, a great hoodwink. Rumi.

When you shut your eyes to the world, it's abolished. Rumi.

I touch the sky with my finger. Distance is nothing but a fantasy. Blake.

Let subject and object be so oned that the wind cannot pass between them. Wu-men.

A sudden perception that Subject and object are one will lead you to a deeply mysterious wordless understanding - you will waken to the truth of Zen. Huang-po.

The whole great Earth is nothing but you. Hsueh-feng.

It is a great joy to realise that the Fundamental Nature is qualityless. Gampopa.

The outward and the inward man are as different as earth and heaven. Meister Eckhart.

It is the Unborn which sees and hears, eats and sleeps. Bankei.

Only God has seeing, hearing. Al-Arabi.

Of inconceivable power am I; without eyes I see; without ears I hear. Kaivalya Upanishad.

I look and listen without using eyes and ears. Lieh-tzu.

Real vision is eyeless. Anandamayi Ma.

Become seeing, seeing, seeing! Rumi.

He became one-eyed. Attar.

This travelling hat may look small, but when I put it on it covers the whole cosmos. Huang-po.

That head of clay is from the earth, and this pure Head from Heaven. Rumi.

How wonderful is the path of love, when the headless one is exalted. Hafiz.

Loosing and dropping off body and mind, your Original Face is clear before you. Zazen-gi.

His form has passed away, he has become a mirror: naught is there but the image of another's face. Rumi.

Not one of the 1700 koans of Zen has any other purpose than to make us see our Original Face. Daito Kokushi.

I see God more real than I see you. Ramakrishna.

The Sage all the time sees and hears no more than an infant sees and hears. Lao-tzu.

People seek it far away. What a pity! They are like a man who, standing in water, complains of thirst. Hakuin.

The first of the famous Three Gates, or Three Questions, of Zen Master Ts'ung-yueh was: Where is your self-nature?

Like the empty sky It has no boundaries, yet It is right in this place, ever profound and clear. Yung-chia Hsuan-cheh.

Into the soul's essence no speck can ever fall. Meister Eckhart.

Seeing into one's self-nature is seeing into nothingness. Seeing into nothingness is true seeing and eternal seeing. Shen-hui.

When a man is awakened he melts and perishes. Rumi.

There is no longer any need to believe, when one sees the truth. Al-Alawi.

God's in, I'm out. Meister Eckhart.

The centre of the soul is God. St. John of the Cross.

The solution to your problem is to see who has it. Ramana Maharshi.

There is a place where all problems have but one universal solution. Anandamayi Ma.

Do not seek refuge in anyone but yourself. Gautama Buddha.

Forgetfulness of the Self is the source of all misery. Ramana Maharshi.

Notice your single eye!

The world is dancing in your stillness.

Every face is your own.

Is there a dividing line between your thoughts and the world? Isn't your mind at large?

Many voices, yet only one speaker, one listener.

See what is arising in this space now! Flowing from this mysterious nothingness.

You are not in the world, the world is in you. Freedom!

No boundaries! All is within you. All is you.

Point your finger at the place you are looking out of and look! How simple and direct is that!

Is there a dividing line between your body sensations and the world?

This moment, all of it, is flowing from the Source - from who you really are.

Problem there - the source of the problem here, and the source of the solution.

Next time you drink or eat, see where the food or drink go!

No distance! All is within you.

This spaciousness is always available - here and now. Isn't it?

Here we are one, forever.

You are busted wide-open for others - built for loving.

In every direction, the world fades out into THIS.

Seeing who you are is non-verbal. Everyone describes it differently.

Stress there to no stress here!

Perfect seeing, here and now.
